[console_scripts]
change_rt_infolist = fileProcessing.changeRT_infoList:main
clean_him_run = fileProcessing.cleanHiM_run:main
figure_3_way_interactions = plots.figure3wayInteractions:main
figure_4_m_matrix = plots.figure4Mmatrix:main
figure_compare_2_matrices = plots.figureCompare2Matrices:main
figure_him_matrix = plots.figureHiMmatrix:main
figure_n_him_matrices = plots.figureN_HiMmatrices:main
figure_single_cell = plots.figureSingleCell:main
image_preprocessing = imageProcessing.imagePreProcessing:main
image_segment_spots = imageProcessing.imageSegmentSpots:main
lndir = fileProcessing.lndir:main
process_him_matrix = postProcessing.processHiMmatrix:main
process_segment_masks_3d = postProcessing.process_segmentMasks3D:main
process_snd_channel = postProcessing.processSNDchannel:main
pyhim = pyHiM:main
pyhim_parameters = parameter_file.pyhim_parameters:main
run_him_cluster = fileProcessing.runHiM_cluster:main
trace_analyzer = postProcessing.trace_analyzer:main
trace_combinator = postProcessing.trace_combinator:main
trace_filter = postProcessing.trace_filter:main
trace_selector = postProcessing.trace_selector:main
unzip_him_run = fileProcessing.unzipHiM_run:main
zip_him_run = fileProcessing.zipHiM_run:main
